<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE article PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DocBook XML V4.1.2//EN"
"/usr/share/sgml/db41xml/docbookx.dtd">

<!--  EXAMPLE:  (see "compile-command" at bottom of document)
For emacs:  C-x c  (to compile)
-->

<article>
  <title>Generate GIF animations from DIA graph</title>

  <section>
    <title>Copyright</title>
    <programlisting>
dia2anim - Create animation from schematic diagram
Copyright (C) 2007, Steve Pothier <email>b4ape@users.sourceforge.net</email>

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307  USA
    </programlisting>
  </section>
  <section>
    <title>Introduction</title>
    <para>To support research into automatic perception, I needed input data
    with specific characteristics.  The most natural way to get such input
    data was to create carefully controlled animation sequences.</para>
<!--
    <para><emphasis>The data is a SEQUENCE of observations that VARIES over
    time, while the underlying CAUSES remain relatively
    STABLE.</emphasis></para>
-->
  </section> 
It will generate an image sequence (animation) of basic geometic shapes moving
around in the field of view.  The schematic (dia diagram) can contain moving
and non-moving objects.

This tool was built to support research into automatic perception.  For
instance, it might be used to generate data for the "Numenta Platform for
Intelligent Computing" (NuPIC, http://www.numenta.com/)

  <section>
    <title>Usage</title>
    <para>The <ulink url="http://live.gnome.org/Dia">Dia</ulink> diagram
    editor is used to create a schematic of a scene.
    The schematic represents static (non-moving) and dynamic (moving) objects.
    In general Dia graphic objects will become static objects in the
    animation.  The exception is when two Dia graphic objects are connected by
    a line.  A connecting line indicates that the two endpoint graphics
    represent <emphasis>multiple observations</emphasis> of the SAME physical
    object.</para>
    <para>Layers are used within Dia to simplify creating many animations with
    the same static objects in them. For instance, I created a background
    layer of static objects representing a traffic intersection (including
    objects such as: medians, lane markings, sidewalks, crosswalks, and
    buildings on the corners).
    </para>
  </section>
</article>


<!--
Local Variables:
fill-column:75
compilation-read-command:nil
compile-command:"docbook2html -u -o derived dia2anim.docbook"
End:
-->
 
